.TH "habedit" "8" "2.0" "Nigel Stuckey" "Habitat"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
habedit \- Edit data stored in a Habitat route or ringstore
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
habedit <\fIroute\fP>
.br 
habedit <\fIfile\fP> <\fIring\fP> <\fIduration\fP>

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Read data from a ringstore (using the three argument addressing) 
or other location (using habitat's \fBroute\fR addressing) 
and amend it using your favorite editor.

If the object does not exist, you will be asked whether you wish
to create it before the editing starts. Answering no will exit
the command.

An attempt is made to recognise free text format data within the 
specified object. If found, then the time and sequence columns 
are suppressed along with the header so that the text alone is 
edited and saved.

If the data is tabular, then a tab separated format will be sent
to the editor, with a header of column names. The sequence 
will be overridden with the next ordinal number when writing back
to the object.

If the editor returns a failure (non 0 return code), then the
resulting edit is not stored back to the route and the utility
is abandoned.

See \fIclockwork\fR(1) for an explination of the route syntax
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP 
\fBVISUAL\fR
If set with a path to a valid binary, this will be used as an editor 
of the data.
.TP 
\fBEDITOR\fR
If VISUAL is not set, this environment variable will be used instead.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To edit the job table from an established datastore file used 
for public data collection. This uses the ringstore driver.
.LP 
habedit rs:var/myhost.grs,clockwork,0
.LP 
Alternatively, if the three argument form is used, the ringstore
driver will be assumed and the \fBrs:\fR part is not needed.
.LP 
habedit var/myhost.grs clockwork 0
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Nigel Stuckey <nigel.stuckey@systemgarden.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clockwork(8), killclock(8), statclock(8), habrep(8),
habconf(5),
myhabitat(1), habget(1), habput(1), habrs(1), habprobe(1), habmeth(1)
