.TH "habget" "1" "2.0" "Nigel Stuckey" "Habitat"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
habget \- Send habitat data to stdout
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
habget [\fI\-c <purl>\fP] [\fI\-C <cfcmd>\fP] 
[\fI\-e <fmt>\fP] [\fI\-dDhv\fP] [\fI\-E\fP] <\fIroute\fP>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Open <route> using habitat's \fBroute\fR addressing and send the
data to stdout.

See \fIclockwork\fR(1) for an explination of the route syntax
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-c\fR \fI<purl>\fP
Append user configuration data from the route <purl>, rather than 
the default file ~/.habrc.
.TP 
\fB\-C\fR \fI<cfcmd>\fP
Append a list of configuration directives from <cfcmd>, separated 
by semicolons.
.TP 
\fB\-d\fR
Place \fBghabitat\fR in diagnostic mode, giving an additional 
level of logging and sending the text to stderr rather than the 
default or configured destinations.
In daemon mode, will send output to the controlling terminal.
.TP 
\fB\-D\fR
Place \fBghabitat\fR in debug mode. 
As \-d above but generating a great deal more information, designed to be 
used in conjunction with the source code. 
Also overrides normal outputs and will send the text to stderr.
In daemon mode, will send output to the controlling terminal.
.TP 
\fB\-e\fR \fI<fmt>\fP
Change the logging output to one of eight preset alternative formats, 
some showing additional information.
<fmt> must be 0\-7.
See LOGGING below.
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR
Print a help message to stdout and exit
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR
Print the version number to stdout and exit
.TP 
\fB\-E\fR
Escape characters in data that would otherwise be unprintable
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To output the job table from an established datastore file used 
for public data collection. This uses the ringstore driver.
.LP 
habget grs:var/myhost.grs,clockwork,0
.LP 
To get the most recent data sample from the 60 second \fBsys\fR ring 
from the same datastore as above.
.LP 
habget grs:var/myhost.grs,sys,60
.LP 
To find errors that may have been generated by clockwork.
.LP 
habget grs:var/myhost.grs,log,0
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Nigel Stuckey <nigel.stuckey@systemgarden.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clockwork(8), killclock(8), statclock(8), habedit(8), habrep(8),
habconf(5),
myhabitat(1), habput(1), irs(1), habprobe(1), habmeth(1)
