.TH "habmeth" "1" "2.0" "Nigel Stuckey" "Habitat"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
habmeth \- Run Habitat's clockwork methods on the command line
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
habmeth [\fI\-c <purl>\fP] [\fI\-C <cfcmd>\fP] 
[\fI\-e <fmt>\fP] [\fI\-dDhv\fP] <\fIcommand\fP>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Runs a Habitat method, that would be available to jobs 
within the \fBclockwork\fR collection program.

<Command> should start with the name of the method and the
remaining arguments to be applied to the methods.

With no arguments, a list of available methods are printed.
Some methods do not require additional arguments other 
than the method name.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-c\fR \fI<purl>\fP
Append user configuration data from the route <purl>, rather than 
the default file ~/.habrc.
.TP 
\fB\-C\fR \fI<cfcmd>\fP
Append a list of configuration directives from <cfcmd>, separated 
by semicolons.
.TP 
\fB\-d\fR
Place \fBghabitat\fR in diagnositc mode, giving an additional 
level of logging and sending the text to stderr rather than the 
default or configured destinations.
In daemon mode, will send output to the controlling terminal.
.TP 
\fB\-D\fR
Place \fBghabitat\fR in debug mode. 
As \-d above but generating a great deal more information, designed to be 
used in conjunction with the source code. 
Also overrides normal outputs and will send the text to stderr.
In daemon mode, will send output to the controlling terminal.
.TP 
\fB\-e\fR \fI<fmt>\fP
Change the logging output to one of eight preset alternative formats, 
some showing additional information.
<fmt> must be 0\-7.
See LOGGING below.
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR
Print a help message to stdout and exit
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR
Print the version to stdout and exit
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To find the available methods
.LP 
habmeth
.LP 
run a habitat method stand alone, where methods are:\-
.br 
exec        Direct submission to exec(2)
.br 
sh          Test submit command line to sh(1)
.br 
snap        Take a snapshot of a route
.br 
tstamp      Timestamp in seconds since 1/1/1970 00:00:00
.br 
sample      Sample tables from a timestore and produce a single table
.br 
pattern     Match patterns on groups of routes to raise events
.br 
event       Process event queues to carry out instructions
.br 
replicate   Replicate rings to and from a repository
.LP 
The tstamp method returns the time in seconds from the epoch.
The example would be
.LP 
habmeth tstamp
.LP 
1094314985
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Nigel Stuckey <nigel.stuckey@systemgarden.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clockwork(8), killclock(8), statclock(8), habedit(8), habrep(8),
habconf(5),
myhabitat(1), habget(1), habput(1), habrs(1), habprobe(1)
