.TH "habput" "1" "2.0" "Nigel Stuckey" "Habitat"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
habput \- Store habitat data from stdin
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
habput [\-s <nslots> \-t <desc>] 
[\fI\-c <purl>\fP] [\fI\-C <cfcmd>\fP] 
[\fI\-e <fmt>\fP] [\fI\-dDhv\fP] <\fIroute\fP>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Open <route> using habitat's \fBroute\fR addressing and send
data from stdin to the route.

See \fIclockwork\fR(1) for an explanation of the route syntax
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
\fB\-c\fR \fI<purl>\fP
Append user configuration data from the route <purl>, rather than 
the default file ~/.habrc.
.TP 
\fB\-C\fR \fI<cfcmd>\fP
Append a list of configuration directives from <cfcmd>, separated 
by semicolons.
.TP 
\fB\-d\fR
Place \fBghabitat\fR in diagnostic mode, giving an additional 
level of logging and sending the text to stderr rather than the 
default or configured destinations.
In daemon mode, will send output to the controlling terminal.
.TP 
\fB\-D\fR
Place \fBghabitat\fR in debug mode. 
As \-d above but generating a great deal more information, designed to be 
used in conjunction with the source code. 
Also overrides normal outputs and will send the text to stderr.
In daemon mode, will send output to the controlling terminal.
.TP 
\fB\-e\fR \fI<fmt>\fP
Change the logging output to one of eight preset alternative formats, 
some showing additional information.
<fmt> must be 0\-7.
See LOGGING below.
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR
Print a help message to stdout and exit
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR
Print the version to stdout and exit
.TP 
\fB\-s <nslots>\fR
Number of slots for creating ringed routes (default 1000); <nslots> of 0
gives a queue behaviour where the oldest data is not lost
.TP 
\fB\-t <desc>\fR
text description for creating ringed routes
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To append a sample of tabular data to a table store, use a tablestore 
driver. This will create a ring which can store 1,000 slots of data.
.LP 
habput grs:var/myfile.grs,myring
.LP 
To save the same data, but limit the ring to just the most recent
10 slots and give the ring a description
.LP 
habput \-s 10 \-t "my description" grs:var/myfile.grs,myring
.LP 
The same data, stored to the same location, but with an unlimited
history (technically a queue).
To make the ring readable in ghabitat with current conventions, 
we store with the prefix \fB'.r'\fR
.LP 
habput \-s 0 \-t "my description" grs:var/myfile.grs,r.myring
.LP 
To save an error record, use a ringstore driver
.LP 
habput \-s 100 \-t "my logs" grs:var/myfile.grs,mylogs
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Nigel Stuckey <nigel.stuckey@systemgarden.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clockwork(8), killclock(8), statclock(8), habedit(8), habrep(8),
habconf(5),
myhabitat(1), habget(1), irs(1), habprobe(1), habmeth(1)
