.TH "myhabitat" "1" "2.0" "Nigel Stuckey" "Habitat"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
myhabitat \- Gtk+ Graphical interface to Habitat
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
myhabitat [\fI\-c <purl>\fP] [\fI\-C <cfcmd>\fP] 
[\fI\-e <fmt>\fP] [\fI\-dDhsv\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
The standard graphical interface for Habitat, able to
view locally captured data, remote Habitat instances and 
repository data provided by Harvest.

When the tool starts, a check is made for the existence of the local 
collection agent, clockwork(8). 
If it is not running, the user is asked if they wish to run it and
if it should autostarted as a daemon in the future.

In appearance, clockwork resembles that of a file manager, with choices 
on the left and visualisation on the right.
If files or other data sources have been opened before, then their 
re\-opening is attempted by \fBMyHabitat\fR and will be placed under 
the \fBFILES\fR and \fBHOSTS\fR nodes in the choice tree.

See the DATA SOURCES section for details of the data that can be
viewed, NAVIGATION for how to interpret the data structures
and VISUALISATION for how to examine the data once displayed.

On Linux, the GUI requires Xwindows; use other front ends or command line tools
if you do not have that facility.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-c\fR \fI<purl>\fP
Append user configuration data from the route <purl>, rather than 
the default file ~/.habrc.
.TP 
\fB\-C\fR \fI<cfcmd>\fP
Append a list of configuration directives from <cfcmd>, separated 
by semicolons.
.TP 
\fB\-d\fR
Place \fBMyHabitat\fR in diagnositc mode, giving an additional 
level of logging and sending the text to stderr rather than the 
default or configured destinations.
In daemon mode, will send output to the controlling terminal.
.TP 
\fB\-D\fR
Place \fBMyHabitat\fR in debug mode. 
As \-d above but generating a great deal more information, designed to be 
used in conjunction with the source code. 
Also overrides normal outputs and will send the text to stderr.
In daemon mode, will send output to the controlling terminal.
.TP 
\fB\-e\fR \fI<fmt>\fP
Change the logging output to one of eight preset alternative formats, 
some showing additional information.
<fmt> must be 0\-7.
See LOGGING below.
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR
Print a help message to stdout and exit
.TP 
\fB\-v\fR
Print the version to stdout and exit
.TP 
\fB\-s\fR
Run in safe mode, which prevents myhabitat automatically loading data 
from files or over the network from peer machines or the repository.
Use if myhabitat start up time is excessively long.
Once started, all data resourcese can be loaded manually.
.SH "DATA SOURCES"
.LP 
Currently, data can be obtained from four types of sources:\-
.TP 
Local Host
Data collected from same machine running \fBMyHabitat\fR appears
under \fBHABITAT\fR in the choice tree as 'This Host: \fIhostname\fR'.
If data is not being collected locally, you will be asked if you wish to 
start on initiation.
It is not essential to collect data, however, and the requests to do so 
can be repressed, making \fBMyHabitat\fR a viewer for the data of others.
.TP 
File
Rich data is stored in format known as a \fIringstore\fR, which
is a structured format using GDBM. It allows multiple rings to be stored in
single container and can contain live or historic data.
Other formats include CSV files and an enhanced version known as 'Fat 
Headed Array' (FHA).
Open them with \fIFile\->Open\fR or \fI^O\fR and use the file chooser.
The file will appear under \fBFILES\fR in the choice tree.
.TP 
Repository
Replicated data once centralised will appear under the 
\fBREPOSITORY\fR node in the choice tree if configured with account details.
Select \fIEdit\->Harvest...\fR or \fIEdit\->Repository...\fR to configure.
The Habitat Administration Guide discusses how to handle repository
accounts in larger installations.
.TP 
Network Data
Data for an individual machine can be read from the repository or a 
peer Habitat instance on another host (using the peer's clockwork daemon).
Select \fIFile\->Host\fR or \fI^H\fR, type in the hostname and 
pick repository or host as a source.
Your selection will appear under \fBHOSTS\fR in the choice tree.
.LP 
Files and hosts can be removed by using the menu item \fIFile\->Close...\fR
(\fI^C\fR) and selecting from a list or by clicking the right mouse 
button over the tree entry.
.SH "NAVIGATION"
.LP
The choice pane on the left holds actively attached or remembered valid 
data sources, similar to a file browser.
It is divided in to a number of sections to categorise the sources and 
help  in navigation.
.TP
\fBHABITAT\fR
Data from the local machine or the operation of the collection agent
.TP
\fBFILES\fR
Files that have been opened by you and if they exist, files that have 
been remembered from previous sessions
.TP
\fBHOSTS\fR
Remote Habitat hosts attached now or in the past, providing that they are still running the collection agent (clockwork). Can be peer instances of Habitat or
be attached directly from a repository (see below)
.TP
\fBREPOSITORY\fR
A central collection of performance and statistical data, able to be 
browsed in a hierarchical organisation tree.
To get to a specific machine, one needs to know its organisational 
location and traverse to it in the tree.
Whilst this aids browsing, one may wish to use the \fIFile\->Host\fR 
option to go directly to a machine.

Habitat's collction agent will typically send local collection data to
a repository for long term storage and analysis, saving excessive
load on machines that collect data. Harvest 
( http://www.systemgarden.com/harvest ) is typically used as a repository.
.LP 
Opening the data source trees will display a default view or a summary and
various controls to navigate the view as needed.
.SH "VISUALISATION"
.LP 
The right hand section of the window is used for visualisation.
Its major uses are for charting and displaying tables.

.LP
Once the data source is selected from the choice pane, the source is
queried to see what data it has to chart. In Habitat, these sets of data
within a source are called a 'ring' (after the term ring buffer) and
each is assigned a button which is displayed in the visualisation pane.:-
.TP 
\fBCPU\fR
Processor data and other system wide information. Habitat stores these 
in the ring \fIsys\fR.
.TP
\fBStorage\fR
Disk, network (NAS) and block (SAN) storage are keyed by the device name
and held in the ring \fIio\fR. Habitat shows the performance, capacity 
and mount point of file systems where applicable in a single collection
.TP 
\fBNetwork\fR
Statistics from the network devices, keyed by the device name; Habitat
stores these in the \fInet\fR ring.
.TP 
\fBProcesses\fR
Full details available from your operating system about 'interesting' 
processes. By default, these are ones that exceed a low threshold of 
utilisation, which indicates that they are more than trivially active. 
Habitat stores this data in the ring \fIps\fR, 
indexed by the process ID and the thresholds are conventionally stored 
in the file \fI$HAB/lib/ps.conf\fR.
A threshold is applied to reduce the amount of data from processes but 
at the risk of losing a complete picture. 
This can be customised by changing the \fIps.conf\fR configuration file
.TP 
\fBUptime\fR
Accumulated up and down time of the system, stored in the ring \fIup\fR
.TP 
\fBEvents\fR
Events raised by Habitat when executing local pattern matching are 
stored in the ring \fIevent\fR.
.TP 
\fBOther\fR
Other is a menu button that holds all other rings in a pull down menu. 
Selecting one of these will change the display to that data, but the 
ring names are not changed: a ring name of \rIfred\fR will have an entry 
called fred.
.LP 
The standard sets of data, such as CPU (\fIsys\fR) and Storage (\fIio\fR)
have default curves that are displayed when the graph is first drawn.
The list of curves down the right hand side are buttons used to draw
or remove data on the graph.
When drawn, the button changes colour to that of of the curve displayed.

A set of buttons change how the seleted data is seen. 
Options are:-
.TP 
\fBText\fR
Data is treated as text rather than structured tabular data. This is useful
when the data is unstructured, not suitable to chart and does not parse.
.TP 
\fBTable\fR
Data is shown as a structured table, suitable for \fICSV\fR for \fIFHA\fR 
files in addition to Habitat's \fIringstores\fR
.TP 
\fBChart\fR
Data is displayed as a line chart with a curve selection check list to the side.
Clicking the check list will draw and remove curves from the shared
charting space. All data is shown in a line chart style with 
a set of buttons below to zooms in and out of the displayed chart, 
and a set of scroll bars which can be used to panned the data
.LP
When charting, the visualisation section is divided into additional parts.
The greatest is used for the graph itself, with other areas being
used for visualisation type, curve selection, zooming and data held.
If the data is multi\-instance, such as with multiple disks, 
then a further area is added to control the number of instance
graphs being displayed.
.LP
A time slider shows the data that is available for this ring at the source
and how much of it is currently displayed. Moving the slider will load 
additional data and redraw more data in the display. Data is cached in
MyHabitat to minimise the number of fetches to the data source.
When data is fetched, whole records are collected (row oriented rather 
than column oriented) which means curve selection is fast at the expense
of larger data fetches.

Whilst the largest amount of data displayed is selected from the 
choice tree, it is possible to 'zoom\-in' to particular times very 
easily using the graph.
There are two methods: either drag the mouse of the area of interest,
creating a rectangle and click the left button inside or use the x 
and y axis zoom buttons from the \fBZoom & Scale\fR area.
The display shows the enlarged view and changes the scale
the x & y rulers.
The time ruler is changes mode to show the most useful feedback of
time at that scale.
To move back and forth along time, move the horizontal scrollbar.
To zoom out, either click the right mouse button over the graph or
use the zoom\-out button in the \fBZoom & Scale\fR area.

.SH "MENU"
.LP 
The File menu adds and removes file and other data sources to 
the choice tree.
It also contains import and export routines to convert between
native datastores and plain text, such as csv and tsv files.

The View menu controls the display and refresh of choice and
visualisation.
It also give the ability to save or send data being displayed to
e\-mail, applications or a file.

The Collect menu controls data collection, if you own the collection
process.

The Graph menu changes the appearance of the chart and is only 
displayed when the graph appears.

Finally, the Help menu gives access to spot help, documentation 
and links to the \fBsystem garden\fR web site for product 
information. 
Most help menu items need a common browser on the users path
to show help information.
.SH "LOGGING"
.LP 
\fBMyHabitat\fR generates information and error messages. 
By default, errors are captured internally and can be displayed
in the visualisation area by clicking on the \fBlogs\fR
node under \fBthis client\fR.

Also available in this area are the \fBlog routes\fR, which shows
the how information of different severity is dealt with
and \fBconfiguration\fR, which shows the values of all the current
configuration directives in effect.

See \fBhabconf\fR(5) for more information.
.SH "FILES"
.LP 
Locations alter depending on how the application is installed.
.TP 
For the habitat configuration
\fI~/.habrc\fP
.br 
\fI$HAB/etc/habitat.conf\fP or \fI/etc/habitat.conf\fR
.TP 
For graphical appearence: fonts, colours, styles, etc
\fI$HAB/lib/myhabitat.rc\fR or \fI/usr/lib/habitat/myhabitat.rc\fR
.TP 
For the help information
\fI$HAB/lib/help/\fR or \fI/usr/lib/habitat/help/\fR
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP 
\fBDISPLAY\fP
The X\-Windows display to use
.TP 
\fBPATH\fP
Used to locate a browser to display help information.
Typical browsers looked for are Mozilla, Netscape, Konqueror, 
Opera, Chimera
.TP 
\fBHOME\fP
User's home directory
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Nigel Stuckey <nigel.stuckey@systemgarden.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
clockwork(8), killclock(8), statclock(8), habedit(8), habrep(8),
habconf(5),
myhabitat(1), habget(1), habput(1), irs(1), habprobe(1), habmeth(1)
